　 　 【 来源 ：   恩波 教育 】 　 　 四六级 考试 在 即 ， 特 修改 了 一份 同学 的 作文 ， 括号 内为 修改稿 ， 请 同学 们 体会 词汇 和 句型 用法 ， 并 与 原文 对照 ， 仔细 琢磨 。 谢谢 ！ 祝 各位 好运 ！ 　 　 The   World   Is   Getting   Smaller   and   Smaller   by   abc _ girl 　 　 Nowadays ,   science   and   technology   have   rapid   improvement . 　 　 (   Nowadays ,   science   and   technology   are   developing   at   an   incredible   speed .   ) 　 　 That   dominates   our   daily   lives ,   which   makes   us   feel   that   the   world   is   getting   smaller   and   smaller . 　 　 ( Fruits   of   their   development   began   to   dominate   our   daily   lives ,   giving   us   a   feeling   that   the   world   is   becoming   ever - smaller . ) 　 　 Currently ,   the   forms   of   communication   are   altering   day   and   night   as   corresponding   techniques   improving .   There   are   a   variety   of   ways   to   communicate   coming   out   behind   people ’ s   growing   requisition . 　 　 ( As   technology   is   fast   advancing ,   a   variety   of   communications   tools   have   sprung   up   to   meet   people ’ s   growing   needs . ) 　 　 Mobile   telephone ,   Internet   and   visual   telephone ,   which   belong   to   high   technical   instrument ,   are   frequently   and   widely   combined   with   our   lives . 　 　 ( Mobile   phone ,   Internet   and   visual   telephone — sophisticated   communications   devices — are   being   integrated   into   our   lives . ) 　 　 For   instance ,   we   are   able   to   connect   with   Internet ,   and   then   function   the   concerned   software ,   such   as   ICQ   and   MSN ,   to   contact   others   we   request   to   get   in   touch   with . 　 　 ( For   instance ,   we   are   able   to   surf   the   net   and   chat   online .   The   information   we   try   to   find   and   the   people   we   try   to   get   in   touch   with   seem   to   be   only   clicks   away . ) 　 　 Visual   telephone   is   a   new   style   of   updated   phone ,   which   can   transmit   voice   signal   and   visual   signal   simultaneously . 　 　 Synchronously ,   the   traffic   vehicle   are   also   coming   to   be   more   and   more   popular . 　 　 ( In   the   meantime ,   our   means   of   transportation   have   undergone   tremendous   changes   as   well   and   autos   have   rolled   into   millions   of   households .   ) 　 　 Plane ,   high   speed   train   and   high   speed   shuttle   bus   are   diffused   for   us . 　 　 ( Plane ,   high   speed   train   and   high   speed   shuttle   bus   are   becoming   increasingly   popular . ) 　 　 We   spend   half   of   original   time ,   even   less   than   that ,   from   one   place   to   another   via   modernized   traffic   implement   and   system . 　 　 ( It   is   now   taking   us   much   shorter   time   than   before   to   go   from   one   place   to   another   via   modernized   traffic   systems .   ) 　 　 Above   phenomena   reveal   that   the   world   is   getting   smaller   and   smaller ,   and   universal   people   are   getting   closer   and   closer   attribute   to   the   increasingly   sophisticated   science   and   technology . 　 　 ( The   above   phenomena   reveal   that   the   world   is   getting   smaller   and   smaller ,   and   people   worldwide   are   getting   closer   and   closer   thanks   to   the   fast - developing   science   and   technology . ) 　 　