　 　 为 帮助 各位 网友 更好 地 备考 英语 四六级 作文 考试 ， 特 对 四六级 写作 存在 的 典型 错误 用 例文 进行 精彩 点评 。 由于 下面 一些 例文 中 错误 较 多 ， 点评 时 只是 列举 了 部分 的 典型 错误 ， 而且 为了 保持 原文 面貌 ， 编辑 没有 做过 多 的 改动 ， 所以 欢迎 大家 一 起来 挑错 ， 有 问题 一起 讨论 。 　 　 英语 四级 作文题目 ：   “ Women   in   the   Modern   World ” 　 　 英语 四级 作文 提纲 ： 　 　 1 .   Women   are   playing   an   increasingly   important   part   in   society   today .________ 　 　 2 .   With   the   changes   in   their   social   role ,   women ’ s   position   in   the   family   has   been   improved   as   well .   ______ 　 　 3 .   In   spite   of   these   changes ,   the   liberation   of   women   has   not   been   completely   realized .   __ 　 　 例 1 ．   （ 2 分段 ） 　 　 Women   are   playing   an   increasingly   important   part   in   society   today .   Long   age ,   women   only   did   something   in   the   kitchen   or   at   home .   Now   many   of   them   have   serious   jobs   to   serve   for   people .   What   men   can   do   so   can   women . 　 　 With   the   changes   in   their   social   role ,   women ’ s   position   in   the   family   has   been   improved   as   well .   Today   in   the   family ,   the   wife   often   lots   her   husband   to   do   something   at   home   bat   ago ,   only   women   did   something .   Men   are   foned   of   doing   something   at   home . 　 　 In   spite   of   these   changes ,   the   liberation   of   women   has   not   been   completely   realized .   Sometimes ,   the   matter ,   the   husband   hitting   has   welf ,   often   happened .   In   the   factory   the   wonmen   to   as   much   as   the   men ,   but   they   are   paid   less   than   the   men .   Some   people   have   not   completely   realized   the   liberation   of   women . 　 　 东方 教育 点评 ： 条理 不清 ， 思路 紊乱 ， 大部分 句子 均 有 错误 ， 有 的 甚至 影响 理解 。 具体 问题 剖析 如下 ： 　 　 ( 1 ) 缺乏 逻辑 ， 东一句西 一句 ， 没有 围绕 中心 论述 ， 如 第一段 就 没有 展开 论述 妇女 社会 角色 的 转变 ， 说 得 太 笼统 而 缺乏 说服力 。 　 　 （ 2 ） 用 汉语 思维 ， 句子 有 明显 的 汉语 痕迹 ， 如 “ What   men   can   do   so   can   women . ” ， 应 改为 “ Women   can   do   what   men   can   do ” 。 　 　 （ 3 ） 衔接 不 自然 ， 没有 用 适当 的 关联词 ， 如 “ Sometimes ,   the   matter ,   the   husband   hitting   has   welf ,   often   happened ” ， 应 改为 “ The   case   that   husband   hits   his   wife   often   happens .   ” 　 　 （ 4 ） 拼写错误 很多 ， 大部分 句子 均 有 错误 。 　 　 例 2 ． （ 5 分段   ） 　 　 Women   are   playing   an   increasingly   important   part   in   society   today .   In   today ,   many   women   have   a   work .   They   worked   as   well   as   men   playing   an   important   part   in   factories .   There   are   many   women   in   government   also .   They   lead   other   people   country ,   and   make   out   plans .   There   are   many   scientist   slso .   They   event   new   things   to   improve   our   life . 　 　 With   the   changes   in   their   social   role ,   women ’ s   position   in   the   family   has   been   improved   as   well .   In   ancient ,   women ’ s   position   in   family   is   pity .   They   had   to   looks   after   their   children ,   did   every   how   husband   ordered   her   to   do .   But   now   it   is   changed .   They   are   equal   to   her   husband .   They   have   the   right   of   speaking   of   idea ,   discussion   thing   with   her   husband ,   do   what   she   wants   to   do . 　 　 In   spite   of   these   changes ,   the   liberation   of   women   has   not   been   completely   realized .   We   also   should   realize ,   women ’   likerty   are   limited .   For   example ,   many   factories   want   men   become   its   workers   but   the   chance   of   women   is   less   than   men .   Everyone   should   do   their   best   to   change   this   condition .   I ’ m   sure ,   the   liberation   of   women   would   be   increased . 　 　 专家 点评 ： 切题 。 论证 充分 ， 有 说服力 ， 论证 手段 丰富 （ 举例 、 正反 ） 表达思想 清楚 ， 语言 流畅 ， 词汇 丰富 ， 连贯性 好 。 用词 准确 ， 仅 有 个别 小 错误 。