　 　 【 来源 ： 北京 领航 考研 】   【 作者 ： 王舰 】 　 　 谨 以此 篇 献给 为 赢得 高分 的 考研 学子 们 ！ 　 　 【 解题 原则 分析 】 　 　 求同存异 123 原则 ： 文章 的 相邻 段落 之间 存在 着 联系 又 同时 存在 差别 。 段落 之间 的 联系 体现 为 二者之间 共享 同一 主题词 ； 段落 之间 的 差别 体现 为 后面 的 段落 比 前面 段落 要 多出 一些 内容 ， 而且 这些 多出 的 内容 恰恰 体现 了 “ 启下 ” 的 关系 。 因此 ， 利用 段落 之间 的 差额 主题 名词 ， 即 “ 相同 表 联系 ， 相异 引 下文 ” 的 原则 ， 便 可以 确定 下 一段落 的 主题词 。 　 　 【 解题 步骤 分析 】 　 　 第一段 ： Canada ’ s   premiers   ( the   leaders   of   provincial   governments ) ,   if   they   have   any   breath   left   after   complaining   about   Ottawa   at   their   late   July   annual   meeting ,   might   spare   a   moment   to   do   something ,   to   reduce   health - care   costs . 　 　 【 主题词 】 Canada ’ s   premiers - Ottawa - annual   meeting - health - care   costs . 　 　 第二段 ： They ’ re   all   groaning   about   soaring   health   budgets ,   the   fastest - growing   component   of   which   are   pharmaceutical   costs . 　 　 【 主题词 】 health   budgets - pharmaceutical   costs . 　 　 第二段 主题词 与 第一段 主题词 做 减法 得出 的 差额 决定 供选择 的 41 题目 主题词 为 ： pharmaceutical   costs .   在 备选 答案 中 找到 以 该词 为 主题词 的 段落 ， 即 E 。 　 　 第三段 ： According   to   the   Canadian   Institute   for   Health   Information ,   prescription   drug   costs   have   risen   since   1997   at   twice   the   rate   of   overall   health - care   spending .   Part   of   the   increase   comes   from   drugs   being   used   to   replace   other   kinds   of   treatments   part   of   it   arises   from   new   drugs   costing   more   than   older   kinds .   Part   of   it   is   higher   prices . 　 　 【 主题词 】 health   budgets - pharmaceutical   costs . 　 　 第四段 ： What   to   do ?   Both   the   Romanow   commission   and   the   Kirby   committee   on   health   care - to   say   nothing   of   reports   from   other   experts - recommended   the   creation   of   a   national   drug   agency .   Instead   of   each   province   having   its   own   list   of   approved   drugs ,   bureaucracy ,   procedures   and   limited   bargaining   power ,   all   would   pool   resources ,   work   with   Ottawa ,   and   create   a   national   institution . 　 　 【 主题词 】 Romanow   commission   and   the   Kirby   committee - health   care - national   drug   agency - a   national   institution . 　 　 第四段 主题词 与 第三段 主题词 做 减法 得出 的 差额 决定 供选择 的 42 题目 主题词 为 ： national   institution .   在 备选 答案 中 找到 以 该词 为 主题词 的 段落 ， 即 C 。 　 　 第五段 ： What   does   “ national ”   mean ?   Roy   Romanow   and   Senator   Michael   Kirby   recommended   a   federal - provincial   body   much   like   the   recently   created   National   Health   Council . 　 　 【 主题词 】 “ national ”   - provinces - “ national ”   organization - better   prices - drug   manufacturers - the   provincial   list - the   national   agency - Quebec - the   national   agency - better   price . 　 　 第五段 主题词 与 第四段 主题词 做 减法 得出 的 差额 决定 供选择 的 43 题目 主题词 为 ： drug   manufacturers ,   Quebec ,   better   price .   在 备选 答案 中 找到 以 该词 为 主题词 的 段落 ， 即 G 。 　 　 第八段 ： A   small   step   has   been   taken   in   the   direction   of   a   national   agency   with   the   creation   of   the   Canadian   Co - coordinating   Office   for   Health   Technology   Assessment ,   funded   by   Ottawa   and   the   provinces .   Under   it ,   a   Common   Drug   Review   recommends   to   provincial   lists   which   new   drugs   should   be   included .   Predictably   and   regrettably   Quebec   refused   to   join . 　 　 【 主题词 】 “ national ” - provinces - “ national ”   organization - better   prices ,   if   possible ,   with   drug   manufacturers - the   provincial   list ,   the   national   agency - Quebec - the   national   agency - better   price . 　 　 第九段 ： A   few   premiers   are   suspicious   of   any   federal - provincial   deal - making .   They   ( particularly   Quebec   and   Alberta )   just   want   Ottawa   to   fork   over   additional   billions   with   few ,   if   any ,   strings   attached .   That ’ s   one   reason   why   the   idea   of   a   national   list   hasn ’ t   gone   anywhere   while   drug   costs   keep   rising   fast . 　 　 【 主题词 】 premiers - deal - making - additional   billions - national - drug   costs . 　 　 第九段 主题词 与 第八段 主题词 做 减法 得出 的 差额 决定 供选择 的 44 题目 主题词 为 ： additional   billions ,   drug   costs   在 备选 答案 中 找到 以 该词 为 主题词 的 段落 ， 即 F 。 　 　 第十段 ： So ,   if   the   provinces   want   to   run   the   health - care   show ,   they   should   prove   they   can   run   it ,   starting   with   an   interprovincial   health   list   that   would   end   duplication ,   save   administrative   costs ,   prevent   one   province   from   being   played   off   against   another ,   and   bargain   for   better   drug   prices . 　 　 【 主题词 】 premiers - deal - making - additional   billions - national - drug   costs . 　 　 第十一段 ： Premiers   love   to   quote   Mr .   Romanow ’ s   report   selectively ,   especially   the   parts   about   more   federal   money   perhaps   they   should   read   what   he   had   to   say   about   drugs :   “ A   national   drug   agency   would   provide   governments   more   influence   on   pharmaceutical   companies   in   order   to   constrain   the   ever - increasing   cost   of   drugs . ” 　 　 【 主题词 】 Premiers - Mr .   Romanow ’ s   report - drugs - national   drug   agency - governments - pharmaceutical   companies - cost   of   drugs . ” 　 　 第十一段 主题词 与 第十段 主题词 做 减法 得出 的 差额 决定 供选择 的 45 题目 主题词 为 ： report ,   drug   costs   在 备选 答案 中 找到 以 该词 为 主题词 的 段落 ， 即 B 。 　 　 Directions :   In   the   following   text ,   some   sentences   have   removed .   For   Questions   41 - 45 ,   choose   the   most   suitable   one   from   the   list   A - G   to   fit   into   of   the   numbered   blank   there   are   two   extra   choices ,   which   do   not   fit   in   any   of   the   gaps .   Mark   your   answers   on   ANSWER   SHEET1 .   ( 2005 年 真题 原文 ) 　 　 Canada ’ s   premiers   ( the   leaders   of   provincial   governments ) ,   if   they   have   any   breath   left   after   complaining   about   Ottawa   at   their   late   July   annual   meeting ,   might   spare   a   moment   to   do   something ,   to   reduce   health - care   costs . 　 　 They ’ re   all   groaning   about   soaring   health   budgets ,   the   fastest - growing   component   of   which   are   pharmaceutical   costs . 　 　 41 . 　 　 What   to   do ?   Both   the   Romanow   commission   and   the   Kirby   committee   on   health   care - to   say   nothing   of   reports   from   other   experts - recommended   the   creation   of   a   national   drug   agency .   Instead   of   each   province   having   its   own   list   of   approved   drugs ,   bureaucracy ,   procedures   and   limited   bargaining   power ,   all   would   pool   resources ,   work   with   Ottawa ,   and   create   a   national   institution . 　 　 42 . 　 　 But   “ national ”   doesn ’ t   have   to   mean   that .   “ National ”   could   mean   interprovincial - provinces   combining   efforts   to   create   one   body .   Either   way ,   one   benefit   of   a   “ national ”   organization   would   be   to   negotiate   better   prices ,   if   possible ,   with   drug   manufacturers .   Instead   of   having   one   province - or   a   series   of   hospitals   within   a   province - negotiate   a   price   for   a   given   drug   on   the   provincial   list ,   the   national   agency   would   negotiate   on   behalf   of   all   provinces .   Rather   than ,   say ,   Quebec ,   negotiating   on   behalf   of   seven   million   people ,   the   national   agency   would   negotiate   on   behalf   of   31   million   people .   Basic   economics   suggests   the   greater   the   potential   consumers ,   the   higher   the   likelihood   of   a   better   price . 　 　 43 . 　 　 A   small   step   has   been   taken   in   the   direction   of   a   national   agency   with   the   creation   of   the   Canadian   Co - coordinating   Office   for   Health   Technology   Assessment ,   funded   by   Ottawa   and   the   provinces .   Under   it ,   a   Common   Drug   Review   recommends   to   provincial   lists   which   new   drugs   should   be   included .   Predictably   and   regrettably   Quebec   refused   to   join . 　 　 A   few   premiers   are   suspicious   of   any   federal - provincial   deal - making .   They   ( particularly   Quebec   and   Alberta )   just   want   Ottawa   to   fork   over   additional   billions   with   few ,   if   any ,   strings   attached .   That ’ s   one   reason   why   the   idea   of   a   national   list   hasn ’ t   gone   anywhere   while   drug   costs   keep   rising   fast . 　 　 44 . 　 　 Premiers   love   to   quote   Mr .   Romanow ’ s   report   selectively ,   especially   the   parts   about   more   federal   money   perhaps   they   should   read   what   he   had   to   say   about   drugs :   “ A   national   drug   agency   would   provide   governments   more   influence   on   pharmaceutical   companies   in   order   to   constrain   the   ever - increasing   cost   of   drugs . ” 　 　 45 . 　 　 So   when   the   premiers   gather   in   Niagara   Falls   to   assemble   their   usual   complaint   list ,   they   should   also   get   cracking   about   something   in   their   jurisdiction   that   would   help   their   budgets   and   patients . 　 　 [ A ]   Quebec ’ s   resistance   to   a   national   agency   is   provincialist   ideology .   One   of   the   first   advocates   for   a   national   list   was   a   researcher   at   Laval   University .   Quebec ’ s   Drug   Insurance   Fund   has   seen   its   costs   skyrocket   with   annual   increases   from   14.3   per   cent   to   26.8   per   cent ! 　 　 [ B ]   Or   they   could   read   Mr .   Kirby ’ s   report : “ the   substantial   buying   power   of   such   an   agency   would   strengthen   the   public   prescription - drug   insurance   plans   to   negotiate   the   lowest   possible   purchase   prices   from   drug   companies ” 　 　 [ C ]   What   does   “ national ”   mean ?   Roy   Romanow   and   Senator   Michael   Kirby   recommended   a   federal - provincial   body   much   like   the   recently   created   National   Health   Council . 　 　 [ D ]   The   problem   is   simple   and   stark :   health - care   costs   have   been ,   are ,   and   will   continue   to   increase   faster   than   government   revenues . 　 　 [ E ]   According   to   the   Canadian   Institute   for   Health   Information ,   prescription   drug   costs   have   risen   since   1997   at   twice   the   rate   of   overall   health - care   spending .   Part   of   the   increase   comes   from   drugs   being   used   to   replace   other   kinds   of   treatments   part   of   it   arises   from   new   drugs   costing   more   than   older   kinds .   Part   of   it   is   higher   prices . 　 　 [ F ]   So ,   if   the   provinces   want   to   run   the   health - care   show ,   they   should   prove   they   can   run   it ,   starting   with   an   interprovincial   health   list   that   would   end   duplication ,   save   administrative   costs ,   prevent   one   province   from   being   played   off   against   another ,   and   bargain   for   better   drug   prices . 　 　 [ G ]   Of   course   the   pharmaceutical   companies   will   scream .   They   like   divided   buyers ,   they   can   lobby   better   that   way .   They   can   use   the   threat   of   removing   jobs   from   one   province   to   another .   They   can   hope   that ,   if   one   province   includes   a   drug   on   its ,   list   the   pressure   will   cause   others   to   include   it   on   theirs .   They   wouldn ’ t   like   a   national   agency ,   but   self - interest   would   lead   them   to   deal   with   it 　 　 方法 决定 成功 与 成败 ！   — — 工欲善其事 ， 必先利其器 ！ 　 　