　 　 【 来源 ： 北京 太奇 培训 学校 】 　 　 2007 北京 太奇 培训 学校 考研 英语 强化班 授课 讲义 ( 四 )   　 　 I .   Use   of   English   ( Cloze )   内部资料   翻印必究 　 　 Business   and   government   leaders   also   consider   the   inflation   rate   to   be   an   important   general   indicator .   Inflation   is   a   period   of   increased   1   that   causes   rapid   rises   in   prices .   When   your   money   buys   2   goods   so   that   you   get   less   for   the   same   amount   of   money   3   before ,   inflation   is   the   problem .   There   is   a   general   rise   4   the   price   of   goods   and   services .   Your   money   buys   less .   Sometimes   people   5   inflation   as   a   time   when   “ a   dollar   is   not   worth   a   dollar   any   more . ” 　 　 Inflation   is   a   problem   for   all   consumers .   People   who   live   on   a   fixed   income   are   6   the   most .   Retired   people ,   for   instance ,   cannot   7   on   an   increase   in   income   as   prices   rise .   Elderly   people   who   don ’ t   work   face   serious   problems   in   stretching   their   incomes   to   8   their   needs   in   time   of   inflation .   9   income   or   any   fixed   income   usually   does   not   rise   as   fast   as   prices .   Many   retired   people   must   cut   their   spending   to   10   rising   prices .   In   many   11   they   must   stop   buying   some   necessary   items ,   such   as   food   and   clothing . 　 　 Even   for   working   people   whose   incomes   are   going   up ,   inflation   can   be   a   problem   12   the   cost   of   living   rises ,   too .   People   who   work   must   have   even   more   money   to   13   their   standard   of   living .   Just   buying   the   things   they   need   14   more .   When   incomes   do   not   keep   pace   with   rising   prices ,   the   standard   of   living   goes   down .   People   may   be   earning   the   same   15   of   money ,   but   they   are   not   living   as   well   because   they   are   not   able   to   buy   16   many   goods   and   services . 　 　 Government   units   17   information   about   prices   in   our   economy   and   publish   it   as   price   indexes   from   which   the   rate   of   change   can   be   determined .   A   price   index   18   changes   in   prices   using   the   price   for   a   given   year   as   the   base .   The   base   price   is   set   19   100 ,   and   the   other   prices   are   20   as   a   percentage   of   the   base   price .   ( 321   words ) 　 　 1 .   A .   demanding   B .   spending   C .   consuming   D .   borrowing 　 　 2 .   A .   a   few   B .   more   C .   fewer   D .   a   little 　 　 3 .   A .   than   B .   like   C .   since   D .   as 　 　 4 .   A .   in   B .   for   C .   at   D .   to 　 　 5 .   A .   render   B .   depict   C .   describe   D .   assume 　 　 6 .   A .   hurt   B .   undermined   C .   damaged   D .   spoiled 　 　 7 .   A .   depend   B .   rest   C .   rely   D .   count 　 　 8 .   A .   acquire   B .   obtain   C .   meet   D .   suit 　 　 9 .   A .   Government   B .   Development   C .   Retirement   D .   Employment 　 　 10 .   A .   put   up   with   B .   keep   up   with   C .   fall   in   with   D .   get   on   with 　 　 11 .   A .   occasions   B .   cases   C .   positions   D .   situations 　 　 12 .   A .   although   B .   if   C .   when   D .   because 　 　 13 .   A .   keep   up   B .   keep   to   C .   reckon   on   D .   reckon   with 　 　 14 .   A .   spends   B .   costs   C .   consumes   D .   wastes 　 　 15 .   A .   number   B .   portion   C .   amount   D .   sum 　 　 16 .   A .   so   B .   too   C .   that   D .   as 　 　 17 .   A .   accept   B .   attain   C .   utilize   D .   gather 　 　 18 .   A .   measures   B .   estimates   C .   assesses   D .   evaluates 　 　 19 .   A .   against   B .   at   C .   by   D .   on 　 　 20 .   A .   reported   B .   designated   C .   decided   D .   publicized 　 　 II .   选择 搭配 题 　 　 Directions ： 　 　 The   following   paragraphs   are   given   in   a   wrong   order .   For   Questions   41 — 45 ,   you   are   required   to   reorganize   these   paragraphs   into   a   coherent   article   by   choosing   from   the   list   A — E   to   fill   in   each   numbered   box .   The   first   and   the   last   paragraphs   have   been   placed   for   you   in   Boxes .   Mark   your   answers   on   ANSWER   SHEET   1 .   ( 10   points ) 　 　 [ A ]   “ I   just   don ’ t   know   how   to   motivate   them   to   do   a   better   job .   We ’ re   in   a   budget   crunch   and   I   have   absolutely   no   financial   rewards   at   my   disposal .   In   fact ,   we ’ ll   probably   have   to   lay   some   people   off   in   the   near   future .   It ’ s   hard   for   me   to   make   the   job   interesting   and   challenging   because   it   isn ’ t   —   it ’ s   boring ,   routine   paperwork ,   and   there   isn ’ t   much   you   can   do   about   it . 　 　 [ B ]   “ Finally ,   I   can ’ t   say   to   them   that   their   promotions   will   hinge   on   the   excellence   of   their   paperwork .   First   of   all ,   they   know   it ’ s   not   true .   If   their   performance   is   adequate ,   most   are   more   likely   to   get   promoted   just   by   staying   on   the   force   a   certain   number   of   years   than   for   some   specific   outstanding   act .   Second ,   they   were   trained   to   do   the   job   they   do   out   in   the   streets ,   not   to   fill   out   forms .   All   through   their   career   it   is   the   arrests   and   interventions   that   get   noticed . 　 　 [ C ]   “ I ’ ve   got   a   real   problem   with   my   officers .   They   come   on   the   force   as   young ,   inexperienced   men ,   and   we   send   them   out   on   the   street ,   either   in   cars   or   on   a   beat .   They   seem   to   like   the   contact   they   have   with   the   public ,   the   action   involved   in   crime   prevention ,   and   the   apprehension   of   criminals .   They   also   like   helping   people   out   at   fires ,   accidents ,   and   other   emergencies ． 　 　 [ D ]   “ Some   people   have   suggested   a   number   of   things   like   using   conviction   records   as   a   performance   criterion .   However ,   we   know   that ’ s   not   fair   —   too   many   other   things   are   involved .   Bad   paperwork   increases   the   chance   that   you   lose   in   court ,   but   good   paperwork   doesn ’ t   necessarily   mean   you ’ ll   win .   We   tried   setting   up   team   competitions   based   on   the   excellence   of   the   reports ,   but   the   guys   caught   on   to   that   pretty   quickly .   No   one   was   getting   any   type   of   reward   for   winning   the   competition ,   and   they   figured   why   should   they   labor   when   there   was   no   payoff . 　 　 [ E ]   “ The   problem   occurs   when   they   get   back   to   the   station .   They   hate   to   do   the   paperwork ,   and   because   they   dislike   it ,   the   job   is   frequently   put   off   or   done   inadequately .   This   lack   of   attention   hurts   us   later   on   when   we   get   to   court .   We   need   clear ,   factual   reports .   They   must   be   highly   detailed   and   unambiguous .   As   soon   as   one   part   of   a   report   is   shown   to   be   inadequate   or   incorrect ,   the   rest   of   the   report   is   suspect .   Poor   reporting   probably   causes   us   to   lose   more   cases   than   any   other   factor . 　 　 [ F ]   “ So   I   just   don ’ t   know   what   to   do .   I ’ ve   been   groping   in   the   dark   in   a   number   of   years .   And   I   hope   that   this   seminar   will   shed   some   light   on   this   problem   of   mine   and   help   me   out   in   my   future   work . ” 　 　 [ G ]   A   large   metropolitan   city   government   was   putting   on   a   number   of   seminars   for   administrators ,   managers   and / or   executives   of   various   departments   throughout   the   city .   At   one   of   these   sessions   the   topic   to   be   discussed   was   motivation   - -   how   we   can   get   public   servants   motivated   to   do   a   good   job .   The   difficulty   of   a   police   captain   became   the   central   focus   of   the   discussion . 　 　 Order : 　 　   　 　 G   41 .   42 .   43 .   44 .   45 .   F 　 　 课外作业 （ 课上 不 讲 ， 下次 课 提供 答案 ） 　 　 Directions : 　 　 The   following   paragraphs   are   given   in   a   wrong   order .   For   Questions   1 - 5 ,   you   are   required   to   reorganize   these   paragraphs 　 　 into   a   coherent   article   by   choosing   from   the   list   A - E   to   fill   in   each   numbered   box .   The   first   and   the   last   paragraphs   have   been 　 　 placed   for   you   in   Boxes .   Mark   your   answers   on   ANSWER   SHEET   1 .   ( 10   points ) 　 　 [ A ]   These   silent ,   zero - emission   gadgets   have   long   been   used   in   NASA   spacecraft .   They   represent   the   great   hope   of   many   environmentalists   to   power   the   first   mass - produced   electric   car . 　 　 [ B ]   Whether   they   are   used   to   run   cars   and   buses   or   to   make   electricity   for   other   applications ,   fuel   cells   operate   by   converting   hydrogen   to   electricity   without   combustion .   They   are   akin   to   continuously - recharging   batteries .   Hydrogen   and   oxygen   are   fed   into   a   stack   of   plates   that   create   electricity ,   with   harmless   water   vapor   as   the   by - product . 　 　 [ C ]   While   batteries   alone   haven ’ t   supplied   the   performance   most   drivers   want ,   proponents   believe   that   fuel   cells ,   probably   combined   with   batteries ,   hold   the   promise   of   performance ,   range   and   better   mileage   compared   with   today ’ s   internal   combustion   engines . 　 　 [ D ]   If   they   work ,   methanol   fuel   cells   could   be   a   major   breakthrough   in   energy   consumption   and   conservation .   The   brave   new   technology   could   drastically   cut   air   pollution   from   auto   emissions   and   other   sources . 　 　 [ E ]   The   size   and   weight   of   fuel   cells   have   always   been   problems .   New   fuel - cell   technology   promises   to   solve   those   issues . 　 　 [ F ]   Fuel   cells   can   use   various   sources   of   hydrogen ,   including   a   simple   tank   of   compressed   gas .   But   methanol ,   a   liquid   usually   produced   from   natural   gas ,   is   a   much   more   efficient   way   to   store   hydrogen .   This   is   why   the   first   wave   of   fuel   cells   in   cars   will   likely   use   an   indirect   methanol   fuel   cell ,   in   which   the   methanol   passes   through   a   mechanism   called   a   “ reformer ” ,   which   extracts   the   hydrogen . 　 　 [ G ]   A   new ,   lightweight   fuel   cell   that   runs   on   methanol   may   one   day   power   your   electric   car .   Sooner   still ,   the   new   cell   may   fuel   smaller   devices   such   as   your   lap - top   computer   or   mobile   phone . 　 　 Order : & nbsp ; 　 　 G   41 .   42 .   43 .   44 .   45 .   F 　 　 III .   English - Chinese   Translation 　 　 1 )   It   is   the   business   of   the   scientist   to   accumulate   knowledge   about   the   universe   and   all   that   is   in   it ,   and   to   find ,   if   he   is   able ,   common   factors   which   underlie   and   account   for   the   facts   that   he   knows .   He   chooses ,   when   he   can ,   the   method   of   the   “ controlled   experiment ” .   If   he   wants   to   find   out   the   effect   of   light   on   growing   plants ,   he   takes   many   plants ,   as   alike   as   possible .   Some   he   stands   in   the   sun ,   some   in   the   shade ,   some   in   the   dark ,   all   the   time   keeping   all   other   conditions   ( temperature ,   moisture ,   nourishment )   the   same .   In   this   way ,   by   keeping   other   conditions   constant ,   and   by   varying   the   light   only ,   the   effect   of   light   on   the   plants   can   be   clearly   seen .   2 )   This   method   of   using   “ controls ”   can   be   applied   to   a   variety   of   situations ,   and   can   be   used   to   find   the   answers   to   questions   as   widely   different   as   “ Must   moisture   be   present   if   iron   is   to   rust ? ”   and   “ Which   variety   of   beans   gives   the   greatest   yield   in   one   season ?   ” 　 　 In   the   course   of   his   inquiries   the   scientist   may   find   what   he   thinks   is   one   common   explanation   for   an   increasing   number   of   facts .   The   explanation ,   if   it   seems   consistently   to   fit   the   various   facts ,   is   called   a   hypothesis .   If   a   hypothesis   continues   to   stand   the   test   of   numerous   experiments   and   remains   unshaken ,   it   becomes   a   law . 　 　 3 )   The   scientist   is   always   most   gratified   to   find   that   an   underlying   “ explanation ”   of   many   phenomena   suggests   in   its   turn   the   possibility   of   proving   its   own   accuracy   or   falsity   by   a   suitably   arranged   critical   experiment .   He   is   also   gratified   when   his   “ explanation ” ,   if   true ,   points   to   a   new   series   of   experiments   designed   to   answer   a   new   set   of   questions .   For   the   curiosity   of   the   scientist   is   never   satisfied . 　 　 The   evidence   as   to   the   vastness   of   the   universe   and   the   complexity   of   its   arrangements   continues   to   grow   at   an   amazing   rate .   The   gap   between   what   we   know   and   all   that   can   be   known   seems   not   to   diminish ,   but   rather   to   increase   with   every   new   discovery .   Fresh   unexplored   regions   are   forever   opening   out . 　 　 4 )   The   rapidity   of   the   increase   of   scientific   knowledge ,   in   the   nineteenth   and   twentieth   centuries ,   is   apt   to   give   students   and   teachers   the   impression   that   no   sooner   is   a   problem   stated   than   the   answer   is   forthcoming .   A   more   detailed   study   of   the   history   of   science   corrects   the   impression   that   fundamental   discoveries   are   made   with   dramatic   suddenness .   Even   in   our   present   age   no   less   than   fifty   years   separate   the   discovery   of   radioactivity   from   the   explosion   of   the   first   atomic   bomb .   Much   of   the   fundamental   information   which   now   enables   us   to   control   the   onset   and   duration   of   disease   was   known   a   century   ago . 　 　 5 )   The   teacher ,   giving   his   brief   accounts   of   scientific   discovery ,   is   liable   to   forget   the   long   periods   of   misunderstanding ,   of   false   hypotheses   and   general   uncertainty ,   which   almost   invariably   precede   the   clear   statement   of   scientific   truth .   ( 486   words ) 　 　 IV .   Writing   Practice 　 　 Directions : 　 　 Your   are   preparing   for   an   English   test   and   are   in   need   of   some   reference   books .   Write   a   letter   to   the   sales   department   of   a   bookstore   to   ask   for : 　 　 1 )   detailed   information   about   the   books   you   want , 　 　 2 )   methods   of   payment , 　 　 3 )   time   and   way   of   delivery . 　 　 Sample : 　 　 Dear   Sir   /   Madam , 　 　 Allow   me   to   introduce   myself .   My   name   is   Li   Ming .   At   present   I ’ m   preparing   for   a   national   English   test .   Therefore ,   I   badly   need   a   good   dictionary .   能否 请 您 告诉 我 一些 有关 词典 的 情况 。 您 的 书店 里 现在 有些 什么 词典 ？ 哪 一本 最 符合 我 的 需要 ？ Besides ,   I   also   want   to   know   how   I   will   pay   for   it .   请 您 告诉 我 是 用 现金 还是 支票 支付 书款 。 By   the   way ,   if   everything   goes   smoothly ,   when   can   I   get   the   dictionary ?   您 用 什么 方式 把 书 转给 我 呢 ？ 　 　 Thank   you   very   much   for   your   time .   I ’ m   looking   forward   to   hearing   from   you   soon . 　 　 Yours   faithfully , 　 　 Li   Ming 　 　 作业 ： 1 .   复习 本 单元 内容 ， 配合 “ 复习 指导 ” 迅速 浏览 其中 的 语法 和 词汇 ， 为 完形 、 英译汉 打 好 基础 。 　 　 2 .   做 “ 复习 指导 ” 中 相关   “ 完形 ” 和 “ 英译汉 ” 练习 。 　 　 3 .   背记本 单元 应用文 。 　 　 赠言 ： 有志者事竟成 。 ( Where   there   is   a   will   there   is   a   way . ) 　 　 选择 搭配 题 参考 译文   ( 课外练习 ) 　 　 也许 有 一天 你 的 电动 小轿车 会 用 一种 新型 的 、 以 甲醇 为 燃料 的 轻型 燃料电池 作 动力 。   这种 新 电池 可能 不久 后 还 可以 为 你 的 便携式电脑 或 移动电话 等 小型 设备 提供 燃料 。 　 　 一旦 投入使用 ， 甲醇 燃料电池 可能 是 在 能源消耗 和 能源 储存 方面 的 一个 重大突破 。 这种 引人注目 的 新 技术 能 极大 地 减少 汽车尾气 和 其它 原因 造成 的 空气污染 。 　 　 燃料电池 无论是 用来 驱动 小轿车 和 公共汽车 ， 还是 用作 其它 设备 的 电源 ，   工作 时 都 不 需 燃料 就 把 氢 转化 为 电 。 它 类似 于 在 连续 充电 的 电池 ，   氢 和 氧 被 输入 一堆 发电 的 多层板 片 装置 ，   同时 排出 无害 的 水蒸气 作为 副产品 。 　 　 这种 低噪音 、 无 排放物 的 小玩意儿 早就 在 美国航空航天局 的 航天器 上 派 上 了 用场 。 很多 环保主义者 对 它 寄予厚望 ，   期待 它 能 为 首批 大量 生产 的 电动 小轿车 提供 动力 。 　 　 尽管 仅靠 蓄电池 不能 满足 大多数 驾驶员 对 车子 工作 性能 的 需要 ，   但 倡导者 们 认为 ， 燃料电池 ，   也许 加上 蓄电池 ， 在 车子 性能 、 行驶 路程 、 耗油量 等 方面 有望 胜过 现在 使用 的 内燃机 。 　 　 燃料电池 的 大小 和 重量 一直 是 没有 解决 的 问题 。 新 的 燃料电池 技术 可望 解决 这些 问题 。 　 　 燃料电池 能 使用 各种 来源 的 氢气 ， 包括 一种 简单 的 压缩 气 储罐 。   但 通常 从 天然气 中 产生 的 一种 液体 ─ — 甲醇 ─ — 能 跟 有效 地 储存 氢 。 这 就是 为什 麽 在 小轿车 中 首批 使用 的 很 可能 是 一种 间接 的 甲醇 燃料电池 。 在 该 电池 中 ，   甲醇 里 的 氢 通过 一个 叫做 “ 重整 器 ” 的 机械 装置 被 提取 出来 。 　 　 帮助 你 学习 记忆 单词 的 有效 方法   - -   同根词 解析 　 　 lat   [ 拉丁语 词根 ]   带有 ， 产生 ， 进行 　 　 * relate   [ re 回   +   lat 带   +   e ]   vi .   ( to )   有 关联   vt .   1 . 使 互相 关联   2 . 叙述 ， 讲述   * relation   n .   1 .   关系 ， 联系   2 .   亲属 ， 亲戚   * relationship   n .   关系 ， 联系   * relative   a .   相对 的 ， 比较 的   n .   亲属 ， 亲戚   * relativity   n .   相对论 ， 相关性   * relevant   a .   相关 的   * irrelevant   a .   不着边际 的   * correlate   [ cor = con   共同   +   relate 关联 ]   vt .   使 相互 关联   v .   ( to ,   with )   和   …   相关   * correlation   n .   相互 关系 ， 相关 （ 性 ） 　 　 * translate   [ trans 转移   +   lat 产生   +   e   - - - -   换 一种 语言 说 出来 ]   v .   翻译   * translation   n .   1 .   翻译 ， 译   2 .   译文 ， 译本 　 　 * translator   n .   译者 　 　